Chapter 80: Browser Control - Controlling the Window's Size and Location

1. Opening a Popup with a Name
    
    When opening a popup, you can assign a name to the window, which allows you to target it with links or forms:

    var monkeyWindow = window.open("monk.html", "win1");

    The first parameter is the URL (monk.html).
    The second parameter is the window's name (win1), which can be referenced in HTML elements.

    Key Points:

    The name is used in HTML, not in JavaScript for further actions on the window.
    You can skip the name by providing an empty string as the second parameter.

2. Controlling the Window's Size

    You can specify the window size by adding width and height parameters:

    var monkeyWindow = window.open("monk.html", "win1", "width=420,height=380");
    
    Things to Note:

    width and height are in pixels.
    Both must be at least 100 pixels.
    The parameters should be part of the third string in the window.open() method.
    No spaces are allowed between the parameters, and they must be enclosed in the same set of quotation marks.

3. Positioning the Window on the Screen
    
    You can also control where the popup will appear on the screen by specifying left and top positions:

    var w = window.open("", "", "width=420,height=380,left=200,top=100");
    
    Key Points:

    left specifies how many pixels the window is from the left edge of the screen.
    top specifies how many pixels the window is from the top of the screen.
    Size parameters must be included along with position parameters for them to work.

4. Combining Size and Position Parameters in a Variable

    For clarity, you can assign window specifications to a variable and use it within window.open():

    var windowSpecs = "width=420,height=380,left=200,top=100";
    window.open("test.html", " ", windowSpecs);

    This allows for easier control over complex window configurations and can be useful when multiple window properties are needed.

5. Setting Empty URL and Name Parameters

    If you only want to control the window's size and position without specifying a URL or name, you can still include empty strings as placeholders:

    var customWindow = window.open("", "", "width=500,height=400");

    This opens a window with the specified size but without any content initially.

Key Points Recap:

    Window Naming: Specify a window name for targeting in HTML links or forms, but it's optional if you don't need it.
    Size and Positioning: Use width, height, left, and top to control the window's size and location on the screen.
    Combining Parameters: You can combine window specifications into a single variable for cleaner code.
    No Spaces in Parameters: Avoid spaces within the size and position parameters, as they will break the JavaScript functionality.

With these options, you can create popups that are sized and positioned exactly as needed for your application's requirements, giving you flexibility over how new windows are displayed.